docs/30-how-to-personalize.md, before:

# How to Personalization

There several ways to personalize Catapult:

## Personal Docker Compose file

`personal/docker-compose-personal.yml` - This file is used to add to, or override the default configuration values defined in `defaults/docker-compose.yml`. It can be used to add custom volumes, environment variables, or other settings that are specific to the user.

Potential use cases for this file include:

- Mounting custom shell rc files (currently only .zshrc supported)
- Adding extra environmental variables to override default Ansible values that come from `ansible.cfg`
- Mounting custom files into the container

## Personal aliases file

`personal/.personal_aliases` - This file is used to add custom shell aliases features etc.

Potential use cases for this file include:

- Adding custom aliases that are not available in the defaults
- Adding aliases that are specific to the user
- Adding specific functions that are not available in the defaults

## Personal makefile configuration

`personal/.makerc-personal` - This file is used to add custom makefile variables that are specific to the user. Refer to the `.makerc-vars` file for available options.

Potential use cases for this file include:

- Adding custom make commands that are specific to the user

## Personal CLI commands

`personal/autocomplete.yml` - This file is used to add custom autocomplete commands for `ctp` that are specific to the user. Refer to the default [autocomplete.yml](https://github.com/ClarifiedSecurity/catapult/blob/main/defaults/autocomplete.yml) as an example

## Personal entrypoint scripts

`personal/docker-entrypoints` - Contains custom docker-entrypoint scripts that will run inside the container during `make start`. Refer to default [entrypoint](https://github.com/ClarifiedSecurity/Catapult/tree/main/scripts/entrypoints) scripts for examples. The scripts are divided into two folders: `first-run` and `every-run`:

- `first-run` - Contains scripts that will run only once when the container is started for the first time.
- `every-run` - Contains scripts that will run every time the container is started. Useful for an example when setting up the environment variables for each user session.

:::info
`docker-entrypoints` only supports `*.sh` files that get sourced by `zsh` shell.
:::

Commit message:

Added examples of advanced deploy patterns to documentation - https://clarifiedsecurity.github.io/catapult-docs/catapult/20-how-to-use.html#ctp-host-list

docs/30-how-to-personalize.md, after:

# How to Personalization

There several ways to personalize Catapult:

## Personal Docker Compose file

`personal/docker-compose-personal.yml` - This file is used to add to, or override the default configuration values defined in `defaults/docker-compose.yml`. It can be used to add custom volumes, environment variables, or other settings that are specific to the user.

Potential use cases for this file include:

- Mounting custom shell rc files (currently only .zshrc supported)
- Adding extra environmental variables to override default Ansible values that come from `ansible.cfg`
- Mounting custom files into the container

## Personal aliases file

`personal/.personal_aliases` - This file is used to add custom shell aliases features etc.

Potential use cases for this file include:

- Adding custom aliases that are not available in the defaults
- Adding aliases that are specific to the user
- Adding specific functions that are not available in the defaults

## Personal makefile configuration

`personal/.makerc-personal` - This file is used to add custom makefile variables that are specific to the user. Refer to the `.makerc-vars` file for available options.

Potential use cases for this file include:

- Adding custom make commands that are specific to the user

**Advanced users** can also take a look at the `.makerc` file to see how some variables are built and override them in their `personal/.makerc-personal` or `personal/docker-compose-personal.yml`

## Personal CLI commands

`personal/autocomplete.yml` - This file is used to add custom autocomplete commands for `ctp` that are specific to the user. Refer to the default [autocomplete.yml](https://github.com/ClarifiedSecurity/catapult/blob/main/defaults/autocomplete.yml) as an example

## Personal entrypoint scripts

`personal/docker-entrypoints` - Contains custom docker-entrypoint scripts that will run inside the container during `make start`. Refer to default [entrypoint](https://github.com/ClarifiedSecurity/Catapult/tree/main/scripts/entrypoints) scripts for examples. The scripts are divided into two folders: `first-run` and `every-run`:

- `first-run` - Contains scripts that will run only once when the container is started for the first time.
- `every-run` - Contains scripts that will run every time the running container is entered. Useful for an example when setting up the environment variables for each user session.

:::info
`docker-entrypoints` only supports `*.sh` files that get sourced by `zsh` shell.
:::
